.TH ZE-MONITOR 1 "March 2025" "ze-monitor 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ze-monitor \- A small Level Zero Sysman GPU monitor utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ze-monitor
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ze-monitor
is a utility for monitoring Intel GPUs using the Level Zero Sysman API.
It provides real-time information about GPU utilization, temperature, power consumption,
and other metrics in a ncurses-based interface.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "--device " ID
Device ID to query. Can accept #, BDF, PCI-ID, /dev/dri/*.
.TP
.B --help
Display help text and exit.
.TP
.B --info
Show additional details about --device.
.TP
.BI "--interval " ms
Time interval for polling in milliseconds. Default is 1000.
.TP
.B --one-shot
Gather statistics on --device, output, then exit.
.TP
.B --list
List available devices. If no parameters provided, this is the default command.
.TP
.B --version
Display version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Monitor the default GPU with 1 second update interval:
.B ze-monitor
.TP
Monitor a specific GPU identified by BDF:
.B ze-monitor --device 0000:03:00.0
.TP
Monitor a device with a faster update interval (500ms):
.B ze-monitor --interval 500
.TP
Get a single snapshot of GPU metrics:
.B ze-monitor --one-shot --device 8086:E20B
.SH NOTES
The ze-monitor utility requires appropriate permissions to access GPU metrics
and is configured with the following capabilities:

.TS
allbox;
lb lb
l l.
Capability	Reason
CAP_DAC_READ_SEARCH	Bypass all filesystem read access checks
CAP_PERFMON	Access to perf_events (vs. overloaded CAP_SYS_ADMIN)
CAP_SYS_PTRACE	PTRACE_MODE_READ_REALCREDS ptrace access mode check
.TE

Execution of ze-monitor is restricted to only users in the 'ze-monitor' group. Users should be members of the 'ze-monitor' group to use this utility:

.B sudo usermod -a -G ze-monitor $(whoami)

Capabilities configured for the ze-monitor executable:

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR capability (7),
.BR capabilities (7),
.BR getpcaps (8),
.BR setcap (8),
.BR capsh (1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 James Ketrenos
.SH AUTHOR
James Ketrenos <james_zemonitor@ketrenos.com>

